Introduction
------------
IMAPClient aims to be a easy-to-use, Pythonic and complete IMAP client
library with no dependencies outside the Python standard library.

Features:
- Arguments and return values are natural Python types. 
- IMAP server responses are fully parsed and readily usable. 
- IMAP unique message IDs (UIDs) are handled transparently. There is
  no need to call different methods to use UIDs.
- Escaping for internationalised mailbox names is transparently
  handled.  Unicode mailbox names may be passed as input wherever a
  folder name is accepted.
- Time zones are transparently handled including when the server and
  client are in different zones.
- Convenience methods are provided for commonly used functionality.
- Exceptions are raised when errors occur.


Why IMAPClient?
---------------
You may ask: "why create another IMAP client library for Python?
Doesn't the Python standard library already have imaplib?".

The problem with imaplib is that it's very low-level. It expects
string values where lists or tuples would be more appropriate and
returns server responses almost unparsed. As IMAP server responses can
be quite complex this means everyone using imaplib ends up writing
their own flimsy parsing routines which break easily.

Also, imaplib doesn't make good use of exceptions. This means you need
to check the return value of each call to imaplib to see if what you
just did was successful.

IMAPClient actually uses imaplib internally. This may change at some
point in the future.


Current Status
--------------
IMAPClient is currently under development but it is unlikely that
the existing API will change in backwards-incompatible ways. Changes
planned for the near future will only add extra functionality to the
API.

You should feel confident using IMAPClient for production
purposes. Any problems found will be fixed quickly once reported.

The project's home page is a Trac instance at:

    http://imapclient.freshfoo.com/  

Details about upcoming versions and planned features/fixes can be
found there.


Mailing List
------------
The IMAPClient mailing list can be used to ask IMAPClient related
questions and report bugs. 

* To send to the list and subscribe send an email to imapclient@librelist.com 
* Archives of the list are available at http://librelist.com/browser/imapclient/ 
* See http://librelist.com/help.html for more information about the mailing list


Using IMAPClient
----------------
IMAPClient is listed on the PyPI (Python Package Index). To install
via PyPI use the pip or easy_install tools:

    pip install imapclient

    easy_install IMAPClient

To install from the source distribution:

    python setup.py install

The project is packaged using Distribute (mostly compatible with
setuptools) and all the usual setup.py installation options are
available. See http://packages.python.org/distribute/ for more info.

See imapclient/examples/example.py for a sample of how to use
IMAPClient. If the IMAPClient was installed from PyPI the examples
subdirectory can be found under whereever the imapclient package is
installed.

The code is well documented. See the docstrings for more usage
information.


interact.py
-----------
This script connects an IMAPClient instance using the command line
args given and starts an interactive session. This is useful for
exploring the IMAPClient API and testing things out, avoiding the
steps required to set up an IMAPClient instance.

The IPython shell is used if it is installed. Otherwise the
code.interact() function from the standard library is used.


livetest.py
-----------
This is a standalone Python script which exercises IMAPClient against
a live IMAP account. It performs operations and then attempts to
confirm that these have been successful.

It must be used with an account that has an INBOX folder and write
access to the account. The folders and contents of the account don't
matter.

WARNING: The operations performed by livetest.py are
destructive. Emails and folders in the test account WILL BE
DELETED. Please only run against a dummy account that you don't care
about.

Run livetest.py with the --help option to see usage.

Please send me the output of livetest.py if it fails to run
successfully against a particular IMAP server. Reports of successful
runs are also welcome.  Please include the type and version of the
IMAP server.


Unit Tests
----------
There are comprehensive unit tests for the FETCH response parser and a
growing number of other parts of the code. These tests use the
unittest package from the standard library and can be run using
"python run_tests.py".
